README.md, before:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![project_license][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/github_username/repo_name">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bbe75d9c-204c-4890-8a9b-f8d5131b0032" alt="Logo" width="200" />
  </a>
</div>


<h3 align="center">DeepEpiX</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Software for annotation and automatic spike detection in MEG recordings
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/agnes_grd/DeepEpiX"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX">View Demo</a>
    &middot;
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    &middot;
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project
This software is designed for clinicians to annotate raw MEG data and run predictive models for spike detection.  

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![Python][Python-shield]][Python-url]
* [![Dash][Dash-shield]][Dash-url]
* [![Plotly][Plotly-shield]][Plotly-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Data Format**: CTF  
- **Skills**: Basic terminal usage and Python knowledge  

### Installation

Follow these steps to install and set up **DeepEpiX**.

#### 1. Clone the Repository in Your Working Directory  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX.git
```

#### 2. Set Up the Dash Environment  
Navigate into the `DeepEpiX` directory:  
```bash
cd DeepEpiX
```

and install the virtual environment for running the Dash app:

<details>
  <summary><b>using pip + venv</b></summary>

  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .dashenv
  source .dashenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-python3.9.txt
  deactivate
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>using conda</b></summary>

  ```bash
  conda create --name .dashenv python=3.9
  conda activate .dashenv
  conda install -c conda-forge numpy scipy pandas matplotlib scikit-learn dash plotly Flask-Caching mne dash-bootstrap-components dash-extensions
  conda deactivate
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>or manual installation</b></summary>

  Alternatively, you can manually install the core packages listed in:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-python3.9.in
  ```
</details>

> **Note:** DeepEpiX was developed using **Python 3.9**, so we recommend using this version.  

---

#### 3. Set Up Prediction Model Environments  
If you want to use prediction models, install the required environments:

<details>
  <summary><b>TensorFlow Environment</b></summary>

  **Using pip + venv:**  
  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .tfenv
  source .tfenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-tfenv.txt
  deactivate
  ```

  **Using conda:**  
  ```bash
  conda create --name .tfenv python=3.9
  conda activate .tfenv
  conda install --file requirements/requirements-tfenv.txt
  conda deactivate
  ```

  Alternatively, install manually from:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-tfenv.in
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>PyTorch Environment</b></summary>

  **Using pip + venv:**  
  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .torchenv
  source .torchenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-torchenv.txt
  deactivate
  ```

  **Using conda:**  
  ```bash
  conda create --name .torchenv python=3.9
  conda activate .torchenv
  conda install --file requirements/requirements-torchenv.txt
  conda deactivate
  ```

  Alternatively, install manually from:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-torchenv.in
  ```
</details>

> These environments (`.tfenv` and `.torchenv`) should be in the **DeepEpiX** directory, as they will be referenced when running prediction models.  
> If you choose different environment names, update them in `static/constants.py` under `TENSORFLOW_ENV` and `TORCH_ENV`.

---

#### 4. Run DeepEpiX  
Activate your Dash environment and start DeepEpiX:  
<details>
  <summary><b>using pip + venv</b></summary>

  ```bash
  source .dashenv/bin/activate
  python3 run.py
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>using conda</b></summary>

  ```bash
  conda activate .dashenv
  python3 run.py
  ```
</details>

Then, open the app in your web browser at:  
[http://127.0.0.1:8050/](http://127.0.0.1:8050/)  

---

#### 5. You're Ready to Use DeepEpiX! 🎉  

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

> For quick access, ensure that your MEG data is placed in the `data` folder within the project directory.

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

Use this space to show useful examples of how a project can be used. Additional screenshots, code examples and demos work well in this space. You may also link to more resources.

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://example.com)_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap
- [ ] Home Page
  - [ ] Visualize folder navigator (instead of entering full folder path)
- [ ] View Page
  - [ ] Plot topomap
  - [ ] Enable spike annotation
- [ ] Predict Page
  - [ ] Run a prediction model

See the [open issues](https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the project_license. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Your Name - [@twitter_handle](https://twitter.com/twitter_handle) - email@email_client.com

Project Link: [https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX](https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* []()
* []()
* []()

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/linkedin_username
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png

[Python-url]: https://www.python.org
[Python-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54
[Dash-url]: https://dash.plotly.com
[Dash-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dash-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=Dash
[Plotly-url]: https://plotly.com/python
[Plotly-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Plotly-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=Plotly

Commit message:

Add docker installation and fix mega bug

README.md, after:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![project_license][license-shield]][license-url]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][linkedin-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/github_username/repo_name">
    <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bbe75d9c-204c-4890-8a9b-f8d5131b0032" alt="Logo" width="200" />
  </a>
</div>


<h3 align="center">DeepEpiX</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Software for annotation and automatic spike detection in MEG recordings
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/agnes_grd/DeepEpiX"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX">View Demo</a>
    &middot;
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    &middot;
    <a href="https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project
This software is designed for clinicians to annotate raw MEG data and run predictive models for spike detection.  

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![Python][Python-shield]][Python-url]
* [![Dash][Dash-shield]][Dash-url]
* [![Plotly][Plotly-shield]][Plotly-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Data Format**: CTF  
- **Skills**: Basic terminal usage and Python/Docker knowledge

### Fast Installation with Docker

#### 1. Clone the Repository in Your Working Directory  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX.git
```
#### 2. Set Up the Data Directory  
Navigate into the `DeepEpiX` directory:  
```bash
cd DeepEpiX
```
and modify the .env file to point to your local data directory:
```bash
# Open or create the .env file
LOCAL_DATA_PATH=/home/user/data  # Modify this to your local data path
```
#### 3. Build and run the Docker container
```bash
docker-compose up --build
```

### Manual Installation for Development Mode

Follow these steps to install and set up **DeepEpiX**.

#### 1. Clone the Repository in Your Working Directory  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX.git
```

#### 2. Set Up the Dash Environment  
Navigate into the `DeepEpiX` directory:  
```bash
cd DeepEpiX
```

and install the virtual environment for running the Dash app:

<details>
  <summary><b>using pip + venv</b></summary>

  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .dashenv
  source .dashenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-python3.9.txt
  deactivate
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>using conda</b></summary>

  ```bash
  conda create --name .dashenv python=3.9
  conda activate .dashenv
  conda install -c conda-forge numpy scipy pandas matplotlib scikit-learn dash plotly Flask-Caching mne dash-bootstrap-components dash-extensions
  conda deactivate
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>or manual installation</b></summary>

  Alternatively, you can manually install the core packages listed in:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-python3.9.in
  ```
</details>

> **Note:** DeepEpiX was developed using **Python 3.9**, so we recommend using this version.  

---

#### 3. Set Up Prediction Model Environments  
If you want to use prediction models, install the required environments:

<details>
  <summary><b>TensorFlow Environment</b></summary>

  **Using pip + venv:**  
  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .tfenv
  source .tfenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-tfenv.txt
  deactivate
  ```

  **Using conda:**  
  ```bash
  conda create --name .tfenv python=3.9
  conda activate .tfenv
  conda install --file requirements/requirements-tfenv.txt
  conda deactivate
  ```

  Alternatively, install manually from:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-tfenv.in
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>PyTorch Environment</b></summary>

  **Using pip + venv:**  
  ```bash
  python3 -m venv .torchenv
  source .torchenv/bin/activate
  python3 -m pip install -r requirements/requirements-torchenv.txt
  deactivate
  ```

  **Using conda:**  
  ```bash
  conda create --name .torchenv python=3.9
  conda activate .torchenv
  conda install --file requirements/requirements-torchenv.txt
  conda deactivate
  ```

  Alternatively, install manually from:  
  ```
  requirements/requirements-torchenv.in
  ```
</details>

> These environments (`.tfenv` and `.torchenv`) should be in the **DeepEpiX** directory, as they will be referenced when running prediction models.  
> If you choose different environment names, update them in `static/constants.py` under `TENSORFLOW_ENV` and `TORCH_ENV`.

---

#### 4. Run DeepEpiX  
Activate your Dash environment and start DeepEpiX:  
<details>
  <summary><b>using pip + venv</b></summary>

  ```bash
  source .dashenv/bin/activate
  python3 run.py
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>using conda</b></summary>

  ```bash
  conda activate .dashenv
  python3 run.py
  ```
</details>

Then, open the app in your web browser at:  
[http://127.0.0.1:8050/](http://127.0.0.1:8050/)  

---

#### 5. You're Ready to Use DeepEpiX! 🎉  

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

> For quick access, ensure that your MEG data is placed in the `data` folder within the project directory.

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

Use this space to show useful examples of how a project can be used. Additional screenshots, code examples and demos work well in this space. You may also link to more resources.

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://example.com)_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap
- [ ] Home Page
  - [ ] Visualize folder navigator (instead of entering full folder path)
- [ ] View Page
  - [ ] Plot topomap
  - [ ] Enable spike annotation
- [ ] Predict Page
  - [ ] Run a prediction model

See the [open issues](https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the project_license. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Your Name - [@twitter_handle](https://twitter.com/twitter_handle) - email@email_client.com

Project Link: [https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX](https://github.com/agnesgrd/DeepEpiX)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* []()
* []()
* []()

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/github_username/repo_name.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/github_username/repo_name/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/linkedin_username
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png

[Python-url]: https://www.python.org
[Python-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54
[Dash-url]: https://dash.plotly.com
[Dash-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Dash-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=Dash
[Plotly-url]: https://plotly.com/python
[Plotly-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Plotly-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=Plotly
